# Working with CDK

### 1. cdk init
Create a new directory and use cdk init to create a new AWS CDK TypeScript project.\
The `cdk init` command creates a structure of files and folders within an empty directory to help organize the source code for your CDK app. \
This structure of files and folders is called your **CDK project**.

Create an empty directory via the terminal:
```bash
mkdir cdk-workshop && cd cdk-workshop
```

We will use cdk init to create a new TypeScript CDK project:
```bash
cdk init sample-app --language typescript
```

### 2. Project structure
- `lib/cdk-workshop-stack.ts` is where your CDK application's main stack is defined. Files in `lib/` are files in which we spend most of our time.
- `bin/cdk-workshop.ts` is the entrypoint of the CDK application. It will load the stack defined in `lib/cdk-workshop-stack.ts`.
- `package.json` is your npm module manifest. It includes information like the name of your app, version, dependencies and build scripts like **"watch"** and **"build"** (`package-lock.json` is maintained by npm)
- `cdk.json` tells the toolkit how to run your app. In our case it will be **"npx ts-node --prefer-ts-exts bin/cdk-workshop.ts"**
- `tsconfig.json` your project's typescript configuration
- `.gitignore` and `.npmignore` tell git and npm which files to include/exclude from source control and when publishing this module to the package manager.
- `node_modules` is maintained by npm and includes all your project's dependencies.

### 3. cdk synth
Synthesize a template from your app.

AWS CDK apps are effectively only a **definition** of your infrastructure using code. When CDK apps are executed, they produce (or **"synthesize"**, in CDK terminology) an AWS CloudFormation template for each stack defined in your application.

### 4. cdk bootstrap
The first time you deploy an AWS CDK app into an environment (account/region), you can install a **"bootstrap stack"**.

This stack includes resources that are used in the toolkit's operation.\
For example, the stack includes an S3 bucket that is used to store templates and assets during the deployment process.

### 4. cdk deploy
Use this command to deploy a cdk app

You will first be informed of security-related changes that the CDK is going to perform on your behalf, if there are any security-related changes.

### 5. cdk diff
Once the app is deployed using `cdk deploy`, You edit your stacks(lib/ files) for updates.

Now that we modified our stack's contents, we can ask the toolkit to show us the difference between our CDK app and what's currently deployed. 

This is a **safe way** to check what will happen once we run cdk deploy and is always good practice !

```bash
cdk diff # view changes

cdk deploy # Deploy the updates
```

### 6. cdk deploy --hotswap
[Timing] We can speed up that deployment time with `cdk deploy --hotswap`, which will assess whether a hotswap deployment can be performed instead of a CloudFormation deployment. 

If possible, the CDK CLI will use `AWS service APIs` to directly make the changes; otherwise it will fall back to performing a full CloudFormation deployment.

**Example**: An update in a lambda function. 

> [!WARNING]
>
> ⚠️ The --hotswap flag deliberately introduces CloudFormation drift to speed up deployments\
> ⚠️ It should only be used for development - never use it for your production Stacks!

### 7. cdk watch
We can do better than calling `cdk deploy` or `cdk deploy --hotswap` each time.\
`cdk watch` is similar to `cdk deploy` except that instead of being a one-shot operation, it monitors your code and assets for changes and attempts to perform a deployment automatically when a change is detected.

By default, cdk watch will use the `--hotswap` flag, which inspects the changes and determines if those changes can be hotswapped.\
Calling `cdk watch --no-hotswap` will disable the hotswap behavior.

**Modify your cdk.json file**

When the `cdk watch` command runs, the files that it observes are determined by the **"watch"** setting in the **cdk.json** file.\
It has two sub-keys, **"include"** and **"exclude"**, each of which can be either a single string or an array of strings. Each entry is interpreted as a path relative to the location of the **cdk.json** file. Globs, both * and **, are allowed to be used.

Your cdk.json file should look similar to this:
```json
{
  "app": "npx ts-node --prefer-ts-exts bin/cdk-workshop.ts",
  "watch": {
    "include": ["**"],
    "exclude": [
      "README.md",
      "cdk*.json",
      "**/*.d.ts",
      "**/*.js",
      "tsconfig.json",
      "package*.json",
      "yarn.lock",
      "node_modules",
      "test"
    ]
  },
  "context": {
    // ...
  }
}
```

As you can see, the sample app comes with a suggested "watch" setting. We do in fact want to observe our .js files in the lambda folder, so let's remove `"**/*.js"` from the "exclude" list.

### 8. Test AWS CDK Application
Documentation [here](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cdk/v2/guide/testing.html)




